**Dissertation: Forecasting Crude Oil Prices on Different Forecasting Horizons** 

Crude oil as a commodity is one of the major components in most advanced economies around the world. To accurately predict and understand the behaviour of crude oil prices is important for economists, analysts, traders and forecasters alike. The recent huge drop in prices of oil due to the coronavirus outbreak has insinuated how crucial it is that effective forecasting has come to play in preparing ourselves in light of these recent events. This paper explores the relationship between crude oil prices and several strategic indicators, investigate the best forecasting model to effectively predict crude oil prices and compare the models’ performance on different forecasting horizons. A simple MA model was able to perform better on shorter forecasting horizons but deteriorates as the period stretches on, while AR and ARIMA model was found to perform better on longer forecasting horizons. Machine learning models such as gradient boosting and random forest perform better on shorter forecasting horizons, while LARS Lasso model perform better on longer period of forecasts. Several indicators such as the market indexes, US productions and exports have a higher degree of importance when building the model. A more minute and detailed aggregation of forecasting horizons may be implemented in the future to cater to a different organisation of interests, and it will be interesting to see if the degree of importance in the selected features can be quantitatively presented to assess how much predictive power do they bring to the model.   
